.TH EXT2SPICE 1 
.SH NAME
ext2spice \- convert hierarchical \fIext\fR\|(5) extracted-circuit files
to input files for \fIspice\fR\|(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ext2spice
[
.B \-i
.I icfile
] [
.B \-o
.I spicefile
] [
.B \-F
] [
.I "extcheck-options"
]
.I root

.SH DESCRIPTION
Ext2spice will convert an extracted circuit from the hierarchical
representation in the \fIext\fR\|(5) format produced by Magic to the
flat representation in \fIspice\fR\|(5) format
suitable for input to the SPICE circuit-level simulator.
The root of the tree to be extracted is the file \fIroot\fB.ext\fR;
it and all the files it references are recursively flattened.
The result is a single, flat representation of the circuit network
that is written to the file \fIroot\fB.spice\fR.  Equivalences
between the node numbers required by SPICE and the node names
from the extracted circuit appear as comments in the SPICE deck
of the form ``\fB** NODE: \fInum\fB = \fIname\fR''.
.PP
Nodes are output as explicit capacitors to ground, if their capacitance
exceeds the threshold for capacitance specified on the command line.
In addition, if a node's lumped resistance exceeds the threshold
specified with the \fB\-r\fR flag (see \fIextcheck\fR\|(1) for details),
all connections from transistors to that node are made through an
explicit resistor whose resistance is half of the lumped node resistance.
One terminal of the resistor will be the node; the other will be a dummy
node that exists solely to connect the resistor and transistor terminals
together.
.PP
The following options are recognized:
.TP
.B \-i\ \fIicfile\fP
If specified, read the file \fIicfile\fR, which contains
lines of the form ``\fInodename nodevalue\fR''.
Causes a Spice \fB.IC\fR line to be output setting the
value of each \fInodename\fR to its associated \fInodevalue\fR
(which must be an integer volatage).
.TP
.B \-o\ \fIoutfile\fP
Instead of leaving output in the file \fIroot\fB.spice\fR, leave it
in \fIoutfile\fP.
.TP
.B \-F
Don't output nodes that aren't connected to fets (floating nodes).
If this flag isn't specified, floating nodes are indicated in the
output with the string ``\fB===FLOATING===\fR'' appended to
the ``\fB** NODE:\fR'' comment line that identifies the node.
.PP
In addition, all of the options of \fIextcheck\fR\|(1) are accepted.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
magic\|(1), extcheck\|(1), ext2dlys\|(1), ext2sim\|(1), spice\|(1),
ext\|(5), sim\|(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Walter Scott
