.\" sccsid "@(#)sleeper.1	1.6 (Berkeley) 5/12/85"
.TH SLEEPER 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
sleeper \- acquire a graphics terminal and hang around
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sleeper
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Certain programs such as \fImagic\fP\|(1) can require the use of
a graphics terminal separate from the terminal used to run the
program.  If the graphics terminal has an ordinary login process
running on it, it is necessary to run \fIsleeper\fP to acquire
ownership of the terminal, set up its modes appropriately,
and prevent the login process from eating input destined for the CAD tool.
.PP
When \fIsleeper\fP is run, it will print a message of the form:
.sp
.in +1i
\fBtty is:\fP
.br
\fB/dev/tty\fIname\fR
.in -1i
.sp
Here, \fB/dev/tty\fIname\fR is the device name of the graphics terminal.
This is particularly useful when sleeper is run over the network,
or when using \fIfsleeper\fP\|(1) or \fIrsleeper\fP\|(1).
.PP
\fISleeper\fR may be killed by sending it two \fBQUIT\fP signals
within ten seconds of each other.  This is most easily done by
typing two quit characters (usually CTRL-\e or CTRL-SHIFT-L)
in a row on the graphics terminal.
.PP
For \fIsleeper\fP to work best, there should be an account named
\fBsleeper\fP, whose login shell is ~cad/bin/sleeper and with no password.
This enables users to log in as the user \fBsleeper\fP,
and is also necessary for
the programs \fIfsleeper\fP\|(1) and \fIrsleeper\fP\|(1) to work.
(Note that you will have to include the full pathname of ~cad/bin/sleeper
in /etc/passwd; the initial ~cad does not get expanded).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
fsleeper(1), magic(1), rsleeper(1)
