.TH EXT2SIM 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ext2sim \- convert hierarchical \fIext\fR\|(5) extracted-circuit files
to flat \fIsim\fR\|(5) files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ext2sim
[
.B \-a
.I aliasfile
] [
.B \-l
.I labelsfile
] [
.B \-o
.I simfile
] [
.B \-A
] [
.B \-B
] [
.B \-F
] [
.B \-L
] [
.B \-t
] [
.I "extcheck-options"
]
.I root

.SH DESCRIPTION
Ext2sim will convert an extracted circuit from the hierarchical
\fIext\fR\|(5) representation produced by Magic to the
flat \fIsim\fR\|(5) representation required by many simulation tools.
The root of the tree to be extracted is the file \fIroot\fB.ext\fR;
it and all the files it references are recursively flattened.
The result is a single, flat representation of the circuit that is
written to the file \fIroot\fB.sim\fR, a list of node aliases
written to the file \fIroot\fB.al\fR, and a list of the locations
of all nodenames in CIF format, suitable for plotting, to the
file \fIroot\fB.nodes\fR.  The file \fIroot\fB.sim\fR is
suitable for use with programs such as
\fIcrystal\fP\|(1), \fIesim\fP\|(1), or \fIsim2spice\fP\|(1).
.LP
The following options are recognized:
.TP 1.0i
.B \-a\ \fIaliasfile\fP
Instead of leaving node aliases in the file \fIroot\fB.al\fR, leave it
in \fIaliasfile\fP.
.TP 1.0i
.B \-l\ \fIlabelfile\fP
Instead of leaving a CIF file with the locations of all node names
in the file \fIroot\fB.nodes\fR, leave it in \fIlabelfile\fP.
.TP 1.0i
.B \-o\ \fIoutfile\fP
Instead of leaving output in the file \fIroot\fB.sim\fR, leave it
in \fIoutfile\fP.
.TP 1.0i
.B \-A
Don't produce the aliases file.
.TP 1.0i
.B \-B
Don't output transistor or node attributes in the \fB.sim\fR file.
This option is necessary when preparing input for programs that
don't know about attributes, such as \fIsim2spice\fR\|(1) (which is
actually made obsolete by \fIext2spice\fR\|(1), anyway),
or \fIrsim\fR\|(1).
.TP 1.0i
.B \-F
Don't output nodes that aren't connected to fets (floating nodes).
.TP 1.0i
.B \-L
Don't produce the label file.
.TP 1.0i
.B \-t\fIchar\fR
Trim characters from node names when writing the output file.  \fIChar\fR
should be either "#" or "!".  The option may be used twice if both characters
are desired.
.PP
In addition, all of the options of \fIextcheck\fR\|(1) are accepted.

.SH "SCALING AND UNITS"
If all of the \fB.ext\fR files in the tree read by \fIext2sim\fP have the
same geometrical scale (specified in the \fBscale\fP
line in each \fB.ext\fR file),
this scale is reflected through to the output, resulting in substantially
smaller \fB.sim\fR files.
Otherwise, the geometrical unit in the output \fB.sim\fR file
is a centimicron.
.PP
Resistance and capacitance are always output in ohms and picofarads,
respectively.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
extcheck\|(1), ext2dlys\|(1), ext2spice\|(1),
magic\|(1), rsim\|(1), sim2spice\|(1), ext\|(5), sim\|(5)

.SH AUTHOR
Walter Scott

.SH BUGS
Transistor gate capacitance is typically not included in node
capacitances, as most analysis tools compute the gate capacitance directly
from the gate area.
The \fB-c\fR flag therefore provides a limit only on non-gate capacitance.
